Hopefully everybody had enough
time to digest what it means and
is to create a simple CLI.
But right now,
our CLI doesn't really do anything.
It just logs hello world.
So let's start building out that logic so
we can actually add new notes from
our CLI, and then we'll figure it
out from there, how to save them,
how to retrieve them, edit them, whatever.
First thing is, let's just create a,
I don't know, a data model, I guess,
for what a note is.
So we want to be able to
do something like this.
Why don't we go to the terminal and
type in, this is my new note like this.
I wanna be able to capture
that in our program, right?
So knowing what we know about CLIs and
arguments to CLIs,
we can do something like this.
So we can say the note would be
process.argv, which we know is an array.
And remember the first two things in the
array is always gonna be the environment.
So the point to note,
the second thing will be the file,
which in this case will be this file.
The third thing is whatever
we pass after the command.
So this will be the third thing in the
array, which will be index 2, all right?
So now we have our note.
And then let's just create a data model,
I guess, of newNote.
It's gonna be an object.
It has something like content,
which would be the notes.
And then we could do something like an id,
which is just something like Date.now,
which should be the ID.
I think we just logged that just to make
sure it's doing what we thought it was
gonna do.
All right, so nothing complicated here,
taking in an argument
from our environment.
Putting that in an object, putting
another property owner with the ID, and
then just logging it.
So let's run this.
And you should get something like this.
You get back an object that has
the content and then an ID, All right?
Pretty cool.
So we're able to pass in that argument and
use it.
So the reason I had to put quotes
around those, anybody know?
Why did I make this
string in the terminal?
>> That would be five separate
arguments [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Exactly,
it'd be five separate arguments because
each argument is separated by space.
So if I removed the quotes it would think
each one of these words is an argument.
Which is not what I want.
So I have to wrap this in a string so I
can say this whole block is one argument.
Cool, okay, so, so far,
this is the beginning stages of it, but
you could probably use your imagination
and see where we can go with this.
But right now it's really not that
functional, we can't do things like,
what if I wanted to come in here and
add a tag to this, or some tags?
Or what if I want to retrieve all
the notes or search notes by content?
It's really not that useful, one, because
we're not even saving this anywhere.
Where are we saving this?
It just gets executed and
then it goes away.
Once this program executes and
it stops, the memory is wiped.
It's not storing it somewhere.
So it's saying that if you ran a website,
shut it down and came back to it,
the memory is wiped.
So this note isn't here anywhere.
So we wanna be able to
persist it somewhere so
we can recall them and
do things on those notes.
So right now it's not that helpful.
But we figured out the IO.
We can input some content and
have it be a note, and
then we can see that it's
there in our program.
And now that it's there,
we can actually do things with it.
But doing all that by hand
is actually quite tedious.
So instead, we're gonna rely on some
modules that node has for us, and
then also some third-party
ones that we'll download.
So we'll get there so
we're not parsing all these things by
hand which can be a job on its own.